All right, welcome everybody
to Mastering Chrome DevTools.
This is version four of the course that
I've done through Frontend Masters.
And yeah, so today we've got, hopefully
a lot of really cool stuff to cover.
And yeah, let's get into it.
Just real quick about me,
my name is John Kuperman.
I, for the last few years,
have sat on TC39,
which is the standards body
behind the JavaScript language.
So that's how new features
get into the language.
They also maintain working groups
around a lot of other cool things,
like source maps, which I am a co-convener
for, as well as proposals for signals.
So we will talk about source maps
today as they relate very closely to
Chrome DevTools, but We'll not talk about
signals today, despite my passion for
talking about signals.
And then, for work, I work at Bloomberg.
I build DevTools, so I get to work
very closely with the Chrome DevTools.
We do a lot of tight integrations
with them for our financial terminal,
as well as we build custom DevTools,
both on top of Chrome and separate.
So, I love building and
talking about developer tooling.
For this course,
I'll leave this slide up for a minute, but
we basically got the code for
people who wanna follow along locally.
That's on GitHub,
at mastering-devtools-static.
We've got the slides,
which I made a tiny URL for
if anyone wants to follow along
with the slides as we go.
And then the code itself is
deployed to masteringdevtools.com.
So please feel free to just
use masteringdevtools.com
unless you're more comfortable
working in your own kind of, IDE and
building things locally and refreshing.
In which case, you can get the same
experience by pulling down the code and
just running it with any HTTP server.
So, I've got instructions on
how to get the code running,
it's literally just static HTML and
CSS, so it should be quite easy.
Otherwise, yeah, just follow along
with the slides and the deployed code.
A bit about what I do before
we kind of get into it.
Two of my colleagues gave this great
conference talk a few months ago that I
have linked at the bottom of the slides
called Building a C++/JS Browser for
the Financial Markets.
So yeah, we essentially make our own
web browser, except instead of serving
user-generated web content,
we serve financial applications.
So there's thousands of these financial
applications, we have this custom browser
that does a bunch of really cool real-time
and charting and fast rendering.
And, it's a really,
really cool project where we get to do all
sorts of deep work within Chromium and
within Chrome DevTools, and
a bunch of high performance C++.
And a bunch of really cool things that
lets us contribute to open-source.
So we sit on,
what wig the web committee, TC39,
the C++ Standards Committee, just doing
as much as we can out in the open.
Which is kind of perfect for me cuz I
came in just loving Chrome DevTools, and
I get to work very,
very closely with them all the time.
So I usually find people come
from three different, maybe,
categories with Chrome DevTools.
I suppose there's people who have
never really opened them before,
maybe they know that they're there, or
maybe they've used it once or twice.
Then there's usually the bread and
butter folks who have used elements,
maybe the console a good amount,
maybe sources a little bit.
Maybe they clicked on performance and
memory.
And then there's people who do a
considerable amount of performance audit.
So, where is everybody
kind of at right now,
in terms of their comfort with DevTools?
>> Speaker 2: Lots of consoles.
>> Jon Kuperman: Lots of console,
yeah, that's great.
That's a good one.
That's very useful.
>> Speaker 3: Prototyping.
>> Jon Kuperman: Okay, yeah, so you're
in the Elements tab a lot, and, okay.
>> Speaker 3: My software takes
a ton of time to build, so-
>> Jon Kuperman: That's great, yeah.
>> Speaker 3: If you have
to troubleshoot anything,
it's best to do it in the DevTools.
>> Jon Kuperman: No, I love that.
I think that's such a good way of using
them to get around some hurdle, yeah.
>> Speaker 4: Also setting breakpoints.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah, breakpoints.
Cool, yeah, we have a whole section
on step-through debugging, but
essentially trying to elevate from
just console logging into step-through
debugging with breakpoints.
Awesome, awesome.
>> Speaker 5: Network tab,
security, privacy for me,
just seeing where my data is going.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah,
I know, that's great.
Yeah, yeah, network tab, security,
privacy can be really, really good.
Yeah, I do quite a bit with
the network tab at work,
just making sure that bundle sizes
are coming in an appropriate way and
all of our TLS settings and
everything all right.
That's great.
>> Speaker 6: Yeah, also looking at
image formats and optimization and-
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah
>> Speaker 6: Looking at,
filter by the largest.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yep, I love that.
Yeah, I love that, again,
more like great performance stuff,
like seeing all the stuff
that's kinda coming to you and
analyzing, you can use the network tab,
see what the biggest thing is.
I think that's really cool.
You could use Lighthouse, which will give
you offerings if there's maybe better
formats that you could be using.
Or just telling you if you're maybe
loading 1000 by 1000 image and
then rendering it 100 by 100,
things like that,
which still bite massive
production sites all the time.
It's always kind of a funny thing to me
that we have all these conference talks
and workshops about optimizing your
build system that you're like,
I saved 0.3 kilobytes off this.
And, I switched to a lighter version,
which is great.
I love all that stuff.
But then, serving like a ten meg
image on top of all that stuff
after you've worked so hard, yeah,
I think those are excellent.
Cool, yeah, hopefully we'll cover
a good amount of that today.
And then, hopefully,
I always hope the most new value,
I hope, will come from the performance and
the memory stuff.
Getting a little bit more comfortable with
really auditing the nitty gritty of your
site and seeing what's going on.
Excellent, to cover in this course, these
are the sections that we've got outlined.
So, essential Chrome DevTools,
which I hope will just give you a passing
familiarity with each one of the tabs.
Just kind of, a comfort in understanding
what they're there for and
what they can do.
Then we'll get into network optimization,
talk about all sorts of stuff coming over
the network and how to use the DevTools
to get a really good understanding.
We'll go into Lighthouse audits, so
covering a lot of the rail and kind of,
web core vital stuff that we talked about
before, as well as image optimization and
bundle optimization.
We'll have a section on step-through
debugging, so kind of making some examples
where just console logging would be
quite difficult to fix a problem but
step-through debugging
can make it a lot easier.
Then we'll get into performance profiling,
so that's CPU-bound stuff.
So we'll kind of analyze the performance
of certain things and we'll play around
with concepts like CSS transforms or
animation frames, things like that.
And then finally,
landing in memory management,
talking about how to detect if
your app has a memory leak.
And if so,
how to kind of use heap snapshots,
kind of figure out where the memory
leak might be coming from.
And then at the very end, we'll play
around with a few of the cool experiments.
I'm not sure how many people are familiar,
but
Chrome DevTools launches a ton of
experiments behind flags all the time.
And they're available to users.
They didn't used to be, but they are.
And so it can be kind of a fun place to
click through and see what's there and
enable some and, yeah,
we'll just kind of have a play with that.